# SDM-Analysis-R-Perl-GRASS-GIS-scripts
Various GDAL, GRASS, Perl, and R scripts from Master's thesis at University of Utah.

I earned a Master of Science in Geography from the University of Utah in spring 2015, writing a thesis called, "Using species distribution models to quantify climate change impacts on the rosy-finch superspecies: an alpine obligate". I chose this topic for two primary reasons: 1) birds are a passion of mine, which led me to spend almost 10 years of my life as an ornithologist working various ornithological research projects, and 2) knowning that the modeling work would give me strong programming/scripting experience with geospatial datasets.

I conducted all my analyses using free-and-open software (FOSS) on a Mac OS, with many of the analyses conducted via the command line interpreter in order to become comfortable using it. Since Mac OS is UNIX-based, many commands are exactly alike those found in a Linux OS. Analyses or workflows using the command line interpreter included the preparation of large raster datasets (climatic variables, digital elevation models) using Geospatial Data Abstraction Library (GDAL) code used alongside Perl code to create for loops to speed up the processing of these large (>200 GB) datasets. Next, these datasets were brought into GRASS GIS, a powerful FOSS GIS, which is great for processing raster datasets using bash scripts. These bash scripts contained GRASS GIS specific code along with some GDAL and Perl on occassion, exposing me to how it's possible to integrate different sources of code in scripts that can be run from the command line interpreter. Once the geospatial datasets were prepared for analysis, they were exported and used as inputs to create species distribution models using four types of statistical models/machine learning algorithms in R. Lastly, all data visualization and presentation for my Master's thesis was conducted using FOSS too. The maps I created were done using Generic Mapping Tools (GMT) written as bash scripts and my actual thesis was written using LaTex, a markup language for formatting text documents.

In this repository I have included scripts I wrote to accomplish my thesis. A copy of my actual thesis can be viewed at the following URL: 

http://content.lib.utah.edu/cdm/ref/collection/etd3/id/3919
